docs/update/update-capi-cluster.md, before:

# Update control nodes in Cluster API clusters

k0smotron supports three update strategies to update the control plane in the Cluster API clusters:

- `InPlace` (default): uses [k0s autopilot](https://docs.k0sproject.io/stable/autopilot/) to update the k0s version on the control plane nodes in-place without recycling the machines.
- `Recreate`: uses the Cluster API workflow to update the control plane by creating new machines for the control plane and decommissioning the old ones.
- `RecreateDeleteFirst`: similar to `Recreate`, but deletes the old machines before creating the new ones. This strategy is suitable for clusters with limited resources.

!!! warning

    The `RecreateDeleteFirst` update strategy is not supported for k0s clusters of less than 3 control plane nodes

## Updating the control plane using k0s autopilot

In case `K0sContolPlane` is created with `spec.updateStrategy=InPlace`, k0smotron uses [k0s autopilot](https://docs.k0sproject.io/stable/autopilot/)
to seamlessly update the k0s version on the control plane **in-place**.

k0smotron does not recycle new machines for the new nodes
to make the control plane upgrade process faster by avoiding the need to spin up
and configure the new machine, and safer by keeping any data on the machine safe.
This differs from the usual Cluster API workflow,
where deploying the new control plane is followed by decommissioning of the old one.

1. Check the configuration of deployed k0smotron cluster in your repository. For example:

    ```yaml
    apiVersion: cluster.x-k8s.io/v1beta1
    kind: Cluster
    metadata:
      name: docker-test
      namespace: default
    spec:
      clusterNetwork:
        pods:
          cidrBlocks:
          - 192.168.0.0/16
        serviceDomain: cluster.local
        services:
          cidrBlocks:
          - 10.128.0.0/12
      controlPlaneRef:
        apiVersion: controlplane.cluster.x-k8s.io/v1beta1
        kind: K0sControlPlane
        name: docker-test-cp
      infrastructureRef:
        apiVersion: infrastructure.cluster.x-k8s.io/v1beta1
        kind: DockerCluster
        name: docker-test
    ---
    apiVersion: infrastructure.cluster.x-k8s.io/v1beta1
    kind: DockerCluster
    metadata:
      name: docker-test
      namespace: default
    spec:
    ---
    apiVersion: controlplane.cluster.x-k8s.io/v1beta1
    kind: K0sControlPlane
    metadata:
      name: docker-test-cp
    spec:
      replicas: 3
      version: v1.31.2+k0s.0
      updateStrategy: InPlace
      k0sConfigSpec:
        args:
          - --enable-worker
        k0s:
          apiVersion: k0s.k0sproject.io/v1beta1
          kind: ClusterConfig
          metadata:
            name: k0s
          spec:
            api:
              extraArgs:
                anonymous-auth: "true" # anonymous-auth=true is needed for k0s to allow unauthorized health-checks on /healthz
            telemetry:
              enabled: true
      machineTemplate:
        infrastructureRef:
          apiVersion: infrastructure.cluster.x-k8s.io/v1beta1
          kind: DockerMachineTemplate
          name: docker-test-cp-template
          namespace: default
    ---
    apiVersion: infrastructure.cluster.x-k8s.io/v1beta1
    kind: DockerMachineTemplate
    metadata:
      name: docker-test-cp-template
      namespace: default
    spec:
      template:
        spec:
          customImage: kindest/node:v1.31.0
    ```

2. Change the k0s version to [the target one](https://docs.k0sproject.io/stable/releases/#k0s-release-and-support-model). For example:

   ```yaml
   apiVersion: controlplane.cluster.x-k8s.io/v1beta1
   kind: K0sControlPlane
   metadata:
     name: docker-test-cp
   spec:
     replicas: 3
     version: v1.31.3+k0s.0 # updated version
     updateStrategy: InPlace
     k0sConfigSpec:
      args:
        - --enable-worker
      k0s:
        apiVersion: k0s.k0sproject.io/v1beta1
        kind: ClusterConfig
        metadata:
          name: k0s
        spec:
          api:
            extraArgs:
              anonymous-auth: "true" # anonymous-auth=true is needed for k0s to allow unauthorized health-checks on /healthz
          telemetry:
            enabled: true
     machineTemplate:
       infrastructureRef:
         apiVersion: infrastructure.cluster.x-k8s.io/v1beta1
         kind: DockerMachineTemplate
         name: docker-test-cp-template
         namespace: default
   ```

3. Update the resources:

   ```bash
   kubectl apply -f ./path-to-file.yaml
   ```

## Updating the control plane using the Cluster API workflow

In case `K0sControlPlane` is created with `spec.updateStrategy=Recreate` or `spec.updateStrategy=RecreateDeleteFirst`, k0smotron uses the Cluster API workflow to update the control plane,
which involves creating a new machines for control plane and decommissioning the old ones.

!!! warning

    The `Recreate` update strategy is not supported for k0s clusters running in `--single` mode.
    The `RecreateDeleteFirst` update strategy is not supported for k0s clusters of less than 3 control plane nodes

For the example below, k0smotron will create 3 new machines for the control plane, ensure that the new control plane nodes are online, and then remove the old machines.


1. Check the configuration of deployed k0smotron cluster in your repository. For example:

    ```yaml
    apiVersion: cluster.x-k8s.io/v1beta1
    kind: Cluster
    metadata:
      name: docker-test
      namespace: default
    spec:
      clusterNetwork:
        pods:
          cidrBlocks:
          - 192.168.0.0/16
        serviceDomain: cluster.local
        services:
          cidrBlocks:
          - 10.128.0.0/12
      controlPlaneRef:
        apiVersion: controlplane.cluster.x-k8s.io/v1beta1
        kind: K0sControlPlane
        name: docker-test-cp
      infrastructureRef:
        apiVersion: infrastructure.cluster.x-k8s.io/v1beta1
        kind: DockerCluster
        name: docker-test
    ---
    apiVersion: infrastructure.cluster.x-k8s.io/v1beta1
    kind: DockerCluster
    metadata:
      name: docker-test
      namespace: default
    spec:
    ---
    apiVersion: controlplane.cluster.x-k8s.io/v1beta1
    kind: K0sControlPlane
    metadata:
      name: docker-test-cp
    spec:
      replicas: 3
      version: v1.31.2+k0s.0
      updateStrategy: Recreate
      k0sConfigSpec:
        args:
          - --enable-worker
        k0s:
          apiVersion: k0s.k0sproject.io/v1beta1
          kind: ClusterConfig
          metadata:
            name: k0s
          spec:
            api:
              extraArgs:
                anonymous-auth: "true" # anonymous-auth=true is needed for k0s to allow unauthorized health-checks on /healthz
            telemetry:
              enabled: true
      machineTemplate:
        infrastructureRef:
          apiVersion: infrastructure.cluster.x-k8s.io/v1beta1
          kind: DockerMachineTemplate
          name: docker-test-cp-template
          namespace: default
    ---
    apiVersion: infrastructure.cluster.x-k8s.io/v1beta1
    kind: DockerMachineTemplate
    metadata:
      name: docker-test-cp-template
      namespace: default
    spec:
      template:
        spec:
          customImage: kindest/node:v1.31.0
    ```

2. Change the k0s version to [the target one](https://docs.k0sproject.io/stable/releases/#k0s-release-and-support-model). For example:

   ```yaml
   apiVersion: controlplane.cluster.x-k8s.io/v1beta1
   kind: K0sControlPlane
   metadata:
     name: docker-test-cp
   spec:
     replicas: 3
     version: v1.31.3+k0s.0 # updated version
     updateStrategy: Recreate
     k0sConfigSpec:
      args:
        - --enable-worker
      k0s:
        apiVersion: k0s.k0sproject.io/v1beta1
        kind: ClusterConfig
        metadata:
          name: k0s
        spec:
          api:
            extraArgs:
              anonymous-auth: "true" # anonymous-auth=true is needed for k0s to allow unauthorized health-checks on /healthz
          telemetry:
            enabled: true
     machineTemplate:
       infrastructureRef:
         apiVersion: infrastructure.cluster.x-k8s.io/v1beta1
         kind: DockerMachineTemplate
         name: docker-test-cp-template
         namespace: default
   ```

3. Update the resources:

   ```bash
   kubectl apply -f ./path-to-file.yaml
   ```

## Known issues

Due to the bug in the older k0s autopilot versions,
the control plane upgrade may get stuck on the `Cordoning` stage
if the control plane is running on the same node as
the worker nodes. For example, `--enable-worker` flag was used during
the control plane deployment. The bug is fixed in the latest patch versions of k0s.

To fix this issue:

- Check the current node that is being updated from the `kubectl get plan autopilot -o yaml` output.
- Manually drain the node.
- In `Controlnode` object patch the corresponding `k0sproject.io/autopilot-signal-data` annotation:
  change the `status` field in the JSON from `Cordoning` to `ApplyingUpdate`.
- Repeat the steps for all the nodes that are being updated.

Commit message:

Support CAPI in-place version updates
Signed-off-by: apedriza <adripedriza@gmail.com>

docs/update/update-capi-cluster.md, after:

# Update control nodes in Cluster API clusters

k0smotron supports three update strategies to update the control plane in the Cluster API clusters:

- `InPlace` (default): updates the control plane nodes in-place without recycling the machines.
  By default, this uses [k0s autopilot](https://docs.k0sproject.io/stable/autopilot/).

  Starting from **Cluster API core v1.12.0**, `InPlace` can leverage **Experimental Cluster API in-place updates** when all of the following requirements are met:

  - Cluster API core **v1.12.0 or newer**

  - Feature gate `EXP_IN_PLACE_UPDATES=true` in Cluster API core.

  - The **k0smotron in-place version update extension** is installed in the management cluster.

  The extension can be installed with:
  ```bash
    kubectl apply --server-side=true -f https://docs.k0smotron.io/{{{ extra.k0smotron_version }}}/extension-inplace-version-update.yaml
  ```

  More about inplace updates in CAPI [here.](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cluster-api/blob/main/docs/proposals/20240807-in-place-updates.md)

  !!! note 

      If the requirements for Cluster API in-place updates are not met, the original in-place update approach is used, where only the control plane machines are updated.

  
- `Recreate`: uses the Cluster API workflow to update the control plane by creating new machines for the control plane and decommissioning the old ones.
- `RecreateDeleteFirst`: similar to `Recreate`, but deletes the old machines before creating the new ones. This strategy is suitable for clusters with limited resources.

!!! warning

    The `RecreateDeleteFirst` update strategy is not supported for k0s clusters of less than 3 control plane nodes

## Updating the control plane using k0s autopilot

In case `K0sContolPlane` is created with `spec.updateStrategy=InPlace`, k0smotron uses [k0s autopilot](https://docs.k0sproject.io/stable/autopilot/)
to seamlessly update the k0s version on the control plane **in-place**.

k0smotron does not recycle new machines for the new nodes
to make the control plane upgrade process faster by avoiding the need to spin up
and configure the new machine, and safer by keeping any data on the machine safe.
This differs from the usual Cluster API workflow,
where deploying the new control plane is followed by decommissioning of the old one.

1. Check the configuration of deployed k0smotron cluster in your repository. For example:

    ```yaml
    apiVersion: cluster.x-k8s.io/v1beta1
    kind: Cluster
    metadata:
      name: docker-test
      namespace: default
    spec:
      clusterNetwork:
        pods:
          cidrBlocks:
          - 192.168.0.0/16
        serviceDomain: cluster.local
        services:
          cidrBlocks:
          - 10.128.0.0/12
      controlPlaneRef:
        apiVersion: controlplane.cluster.x-k8s.io/v1beta1
        kind: K0sControlPlane
        name: docker-test-cp
      infrastructureRef:
        apiVersion: infrastructure.cluster.x-k8s.io/v1beta1
        kind: DockerCluster
        name: docker-test
    ---
    apiVersion: infrastructure.cluster.x-k8s.io/v1beta1
    kind: DockerCluster
    metadata:
      name: docker-test
      namespace: default
    spec:
    ---
    apiVersion: controlplane.cluster.x-k8s.io/v1beta1
    kind: K0sControlPlane
    metadata:
      name: docker-test-cp
    spec:
      replicas: 3
      version: v1.31.2+k0s.0
      updateStrategy: InPlace
      k0sConfigSpec:
        args:
          - --enable-worker
        k0s:
          apiVersion: k0s.k0sproject.io/v1beta1
          kind: ClusterConfig
          metadata:
            name: k0s
          spec:
            api:
              extraArgs:
                anonymous-auth: "true" # anonymous-auth=true is needed for k0s to allow unauthorized health-checks on /healthz
            telemetry:
              enabled: true
      machineTemplate:
        infrastructureRef:
          apiVersion: infrastructure.cluster.x-k8s.io/v1beta1
          kind: DockerMachineTemplate
          name: docker-test-cp-template
          namespace: default
    ---
    apiVersion: infrastructure.cluster.x-k8s.io/v1beta1
    kind: DockerMachineTemplate
    metadata:
      name: docker-test-cp-template
      namespace: default
    spec:
      template:
        spec:
          customImage: kindest/node:v1.31.0
    ```

2. Change the k0s version to [the target one](https://docs.k0sproject.io/stable/releases/#k0s-release-and-support-model). For example:

   ```yaml
   apiVersion: controlplane.cluster.x-k8s.io/v1beta1
   kind: K0sControlPlane
   metadata:
     name: docker-test-cp
   spec:
     replicas: 3
     version: v1.31.3+k0s.0 # updated version
     updateStrategy: InPlace
     k0sConfigSpec:
      args:
        - --enable-worker
      k0s:
        apiVersion: k0s.k0sproject.io/v1beta1
        kind: ClusterConfig
        metadata:
          name: k0s
        spec:
          api:
            extraArgs:
              anonymous-auth: "true" # anonymous-auth=true is needed for k0s to allow unauthorized health-checks on /healthz
          telemetry:
            enabled: true
     machineTemplate:
       infrastructureRef:
         apiVersion: infrastructure.cluster.x-k8s.io/v1beta1
         kind: DockerMachineTemplate
         name: docker-test-cp-template
         namespace: default
   ```

3. Update the resources:

   ```bash
   kubectl apply -f ./path-to-file.yaml
   ```

## Updating the control plane using the Cluster API workflow

In case `K0sControlPlane` is created with `spec.updateStrategy=Recreate` or `spec.updateStrategy=RecreateDeleteFirst`, k0smotron uses the Cluster API workflow to update the control plane,
which involves creating a new machines for control plane and decommissioning the old ones.

!!! warning

    The `Recreate` update strategy is not supported for k0s clusters running in `--single` mode.
    The `RecreateDeleteFirst` update strategy is not supported for k0s clusters of less than 3 control plane nodes

For the example below, k0smotron will create 3 new machines for the control plane, ensure that the new control plane nodes are online, and then remove the old machines.


1. Check the configuration of deployed k0smotron cluster in your repository. For example:

    ```yaml
    apiVersion: cluster.x-k8s.io/v1beta1
    kind: Cluster
    metadata:
      name: docker-test
      namespace: default
    spec:
      clusterNetwork:
        pods:
          cidrBlocks:
          - 192.168.0.0/16
        serviceDomain: cluster.local
        services:
          cidrBlocks:
          - 10.128.0.0/12
      controlPlaneRef:
        apiVersion: controlplane.cluster.x-k8s.io/v1beta1
        kind: K0sControlPlane
        name: docker-test-cp
      infrastructureRef:
        apiVersion: infrastructure.cluster.x-k8s.io/v1beta1
        kind: DockerCluster
        name: docker-test
    ---
    apiVersion: infrastructure.cluster.x-k8s.io/v1beta1
    kind: DockerCluster
    metadata:
      name: docker-test
      namespace: default
    spec:
    ---
    apiVersion: controlplane.cluster.x-k8s.io/v1beta1
    kind: K0sControlPlane
    metadata:
      name: docker-test-cp
    spec:
      replicas: 3
      version: v1.31.2+k0s.0
      updateStrategy: Recreate
      k0sConfigSpec:
        args:
          - --enable-worker
        k0s:
          apiVersion: k0s.k0sproject.io/v1beta1
          kind: ClusterConfig
          metadata:
            name: k0s
          spec:
            api:
              extraArgs:
                anonymous-auth: "true" # anonymous-auth=true is needed for k0s to allow unauthorized health-checks on /healthz
            telemetry:
              enabled: true
      machineTemplate:
        infrastructureRef:
          apiVersion: infrastructure.cluster.x-k8s.io/v1beta1
          kind: DockerMachineTemplate
          name: docker-test-cp-template
          namespace: default
    ---
    apiVersion: infrastructure.cluster.x-k8s.io/v1beta1
    kind: DockerMachineTemplate
    metadata:
      name: docker-test-cp-template
      namespace: default
    spec:
      template:
        spec:
          customImage: kindest/node:v1.31.0
    ```

2. Change the k0s version to [the target one](https://docs.k0sproject.io/stable/releases/#k0s-release-and-support-model). For example:

   ```yaml
   apiVersion: controlplane.cluster.x-k8s.io/v1beta1
   kind: K0sControlPlane
   metadata:
     name: docker-test-cp
   spec:
     replicas: 3
     version: v1.31.3+k0s.0 # updated version
     updateStrategy: Recreate
     k0sConfigSpec:
      args:
        - --enable-worker
      k0s:
        apiVersion: k0s.k0sproject.io/v1beta1
        kind: ClusterConfig
        metadata:
          name: k0s
        spec:
          api:
            extraArgs:
              anonymous-auth: "true" # anonymous-auth=true is needed for k0s to allow unauthorized health-checks on /healthz
          telemetry:
            enabled: true
     machineTemplate:
       infrastructureRef:
         apiVersion: infrastructure.cluster.x-k8s.io/v1beta1
         kind: DockerMachineTemplate
         name: docker-test-cp-template
         namespace: default
   ```

3. Update the resources:

   ```bash
   kubectl apply -f ./path-to-file.yaml
   ```

## Known issues

Due to the bug in the older k0s autopilot versions,
the control plane upgrade may get stuck on the `Cordoning` stage
if the control plane is running on the same node as
the worker nodes. For example, `--enable-worker` flag was used during
the control plane deployment. The bug is fixed in the latest patch versions of k0s.

To fix this issue:

- Check the current node that is being updated from the `kubectl get plan autopilot -o yaml` output.
- Manually drain the node.
- In `Controlnode` object patch the corresponding `k0sproject.io/autopilot-signal-data` annotation:
  change the `status` field in the JSON from `Cordoning` to `ApplyingUpdate`.
- Repeat the steps for all the nodes that are being updated.
