docs/capi-controlplane.md, before:

# Cluster API - Control Plane provider

k0smotron can act as a control plane provider via usage of `K0smotronControlPlane` CRDs.

As per usual, you need to define a `Cluster` object given with a reference to control plane provider:
```yaml
apiVersion: cluster.x-k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: Cluster
metadata:
  name: cp-test
spec:
  clusterNetwork:
    pods:
      cidrBlocks:
        - 10.244.0.0/16
    services:
      cidrBlocks:
        - 10.96.0.0/12
  controlPlaneRef:
    apiVersion: controlplane.cluster.x-k8s.io/v1beta1
    kind: K0smotronControlPlane
    name: cp-test
```

Next we need to provider the configuration for the actual `K0smotronControlPlane`:

```yaml
apiVersion: controlplane.cluster.x-k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: K0smotronControlPlane
metadata:
  name: cp-test
spec:
  k0sVersion: v1.27.2-k0s.0
  persistence:
    type: emptyDir
  service:
    type: LoadBalancer
    # apiPort: 6443
    # konnectivityPort: 8132
    annotations:
      load-balancer.hetzner.cloud/location: fsn1
```

The `K0smotronControlPlane.spec` field is a direct mapping of the "standalone" k0smotron cluster [configuration](configuration.md).

Commit message:

Add references to generated CRD ref docs
Signed-off-by: Jussi Nummelin <jnummelin@mirantis.com>

docs/capi-controlplane.md, after:

# Cluster API - Control Plane provider

k0smotron can act as a control plane provider via usage of `K0smotronControlPlane` CRDs.

As per usual, you need to define a `Cluster` object given with a reference to control plane provider:
```yaml
apiVersion: cluster.x-k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: Cluster
metadata:
  name: cp-test
spec:
  clusterNetwork:
    pods:
      cidrBlocks:
        - 10.244.0.0/16
    services:
      cidrBlocks:
        - 10.96.0.0/12
  controlPlaneRef:
    apiVersion: controlplane.cluster.x-k8s.io/v1beta1
    kind: K0smotronControlPlane
    name: cp-test
```

Next we need to provider the configuration for the actual `K0smotronControlPlane`:

```yaml
apiVersion: controlplane.cluster.x-k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: K0smotronControlPlane
metadata:
  name: cp-test
spec:
  k0sVersion: v1.27.2-k0s.0
  persistence:
    type: emptyDir
  service:
    type: LoadBalancer
    # apiPort: 6443
    # konnectivityPort: 8132
    annotations:
      load-balancer.hetzner.cloud/location: fsn1
```

Check the [examples](capi-examples.md) pages for more detailed examples how k0smotron can be used with various Cluster API infrastructure providers.

For a full reference on `K0smotronControlPlane` configurability see the [reference docs](resource-reference.md#controlplaneclusterx-k8siov1beta1).
