docs/cluster-api.md, before:

# k0smotron as Cluster API provider

k0smotron can act as a [Cluster API](https://cluster-api.sigs.k8s.io/) provider in several different roles.

## Control Plane provider - in-cluster

When k0smotron acts as a [control plane provider](https://cluster-api.sigs.k8s.io/developer/architecture/controllers/control-plane.html) it will create and manage the cluster control plane within the management cluster, just as in the [standalone](cluster.md) case.

## Control Plane - out-of-cluster

k0smotron can function also as a "traditional" contol plane provider where the control plane is running on CAPI managed `Machines`s.

## Bootstrap provider

k0smotron can also act as a [bootstrap provider](https://cluster-api.sigs.k8s.io/developer/architecture/controllers/bootstrap.html) for worker nodes you want to manage via Cluster API. When k0smotron detects a new node that needs to be added to the cluster it will automatically create a new [join token]() needed for the node and creates the provisioning cloud-init script for the node. Once Cluster API controllers sees the node initialization script in place (in a secret) the [infrastructure provider](https://cluster-api.sigs.k8s.io/developer/providers/machine-infrastructure.html) will create the needed resources (usually VMs in cloud provider infrastructure) with the k0smotron created cloud-init script.

## Remote Machine provider

k0smotron also provides a ClusterAPI provider to manage and bootstrap cluster `Machines` remotely via SSH connection. This allows managing the clusters in environment where there's no existing ClusterAPi provider available. Such environments could be for example bare metal environments.

## Cluster autoscaling

[Cluster Autoscaler](https://github.com/kubernetes/autoscaler) works with [ClusterAPI](https://cluster-api.sigs.k8s.io/tasks/automated-machine-management/autoscaling). You need to deploy an "instance" of autoscaler per child cluster in order for it to work properly. If you deploy autoscaler via Helm, here's some values to look out:

| Value                        | Why?                                                                                                                                                                               |
|------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `autodiscovery.clusterName`  | Select the child cluster you want to autoscale. E.g. `my-cluster`                                                                                                                  |
| `cloudProvider`              | Set to `clusterapi` to make autoscaler work with ClusterAPI                                                                                                                        |
| `clusterAPIKubeconfigSecret` | Set to the kubeconfig secret created by CAPI. E.g. `my-cluster-kubeconfig`                                                                                                         |
| `clusterAPIMode`             | Set to `kubeconfig-incluster`. Essentially this tells that the child cluster API is accessed with the kubeconfig from the secret and management cluster via `incluster` kubeconfig |

!!! note "RBAC finetuning needed with Helm deployed autoscaler"
     The Helm chart does not take into account the need for autoscaler to access the implementation specific resources in `infrastructure.cluster.x-k8s.io` group. To fix that you need to modify* the `ClusterRole` to include e.g.

     ```yaml
     - verbs:
        - get
        - list
        - update
        - watch
      apiGroups:
        - infrastructure.cluster.x-k8s.io
      resources:
        - '*' # You can of course limit this to your specific infrastructure types only, e.g. `AWSMachineDeployment` etc.
     ```

     *) Happy to get feedback whether there's a better workaround for this.

Commit message:

feat: enable HCP deployment on external clusters (#989)
* feat: enable HCP deployment on external clusters

Signed-off-by: apedriza <adripedriza@gmail.com>

* Refactor client scope usage

Signed-off-by: apedriza <adripedriza@gmail.com>

* Add docs

Signed-off-by: apedriza <adripedriza@gmail.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: apedriza <adripedriza@gmail.com>

docs/cluster-api.md, after:

# k0smotron as Cluster API provider

k0smotron can act as a [Cluster API](https://cluster-api.sigs.k8s.io/) provider in several different roles.

## Control Plane provider - in-cluster

When k0smotron acts as a [control plane provider](https://cluster-api.sigs.k8s.io/developer/architecture/controllers/control-plane.html) it will create and manage the cluster control plane within the management cluster , just as in the [standalone](cluster.md) case.

By default k0smotron deploys control planes in the management cluster, but you can target an external cluster by providing a kubeconfig via [`kubeconfigRef`](/resource-reference/controlplane.cluster.x-k8s.io-v1beta1/#k0smotroncontrolplanespeckubeconfigref). When using an external cluster, the identity associated with that kubeconfig must have sufficient RBAC permissions for k0smotron to create and manage control plane resources. You can review the RBAC roles used by k0smotron [here](https://github.com/k0sproject/k0smotron/tree/main/config/rbac).

## Control Plane - out-of-cluster

k0smotron can function also as a "traditional" contol plane provider where the control plane is running on CAPI managed `Machines`s.

## Bootstrap provider

k0smotron can also act as a [bootstrap provider](https://cluster-api.sigs.k8s.io/developer/architecture/controllers/bootstrap.html) for worker nodes you want to manage via Cluster API. When k0smotron detects a new node that needs to be added to the cluster it will automatically create a new [join token]() needed for the node and creates the provisioning cloud-init script for the node. Once Cluster API controllers sees the node initialization script in place (in a secret) the [infrastructure provider](https://cluster-api.sigs.k8s.io/developer/providers/machine-infrastructure.html) will create the needed resources (usually VMs in cloud provider infrastructure) with the k0smotron created cloud-init script.

## Remote Machine provider

k0smotron also provides a ClusterAPI provider to manage and bootstrap cluster `Machines` remotely via SSH connection. This allows managing the clusters in environment where there's no existing ClusterAPi provider available. Such environments could be for example bare metal environments.

## Cluster autoscaling

[Cluster Autoscaler](https://github.com/kubernetes/autoscaler) works with [ClusterAPI](https://cluster-api.sigs.k8s.io/tasks/automated-machine-management/autoscaling). You need to deploy an "instance" of autoscaler per child cluster in order for it to work properly. If you deploy autoscaler via Helm, here's some values to look out:

| Value                        | Why?                                                                                                                                                                               |
|------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `autodiscovery.clusterName`  | Select the child cluster you want to autoscale. E.g. `my-cluster`                                                                                                                  |
| `cloudProvider`              | Set to `clusterapi` to make autoscaler work with ClusterAPI                                                                                                                        |
| `clusterAPIKubeconfigSecret` | Set to the kubeconfig secret created by CAPI. E.g. `my-cluster-kubeconfig`                                                                                                         |
| `clusterAPIMode`             | Set to `kubeconfig-incluster`. Essentially this tells that the child cluster API is accessed with the kubeconfig from the secret and management cluster via `incluster` kubeconfig |

!!! note "RBAC finetuning needed with Helm deployed autoscaler"
     The Helm chart does not take into account the need for autoscaler to access the implementation specific resources in `infrastructure.cluster.x-k8s.io` group. To fix that you need to modify* the `ClusterRole` to include e.g.

     ```yaml
     - verbs:
        - get
        - list
        - update
        - watch
      apiGroups:
        - infrastructure.cluster.x-k8s.io
      resources:
        - '*' # You can of course limit this to your specific infrastructure types only, e.g. `AWSMachineDeployment` etc.
     ```

     *) Happy to get feedback whether there's a better workaround for this.
