docs/install.md, before:

# Introduction

This section describes how to install k0smotron on top of an existing k0s
Kubernetes cluster that allows for creation and management of the k0s
control plane.

# Hardware requirements

k0smotron does not require any special hardware for workloads aside from
the one required for k0s. For details on k0s hardware requirements for
workloads, see [k0s documentation](https://docs.k0sproject.io/stable/system-requirements/).

# Software prerequisites

k0smotron requires the following software to be preinstalled:

* Kubernetes management cluster.
  In this documentation set, we use the
  [k0s Kubernetes distribution](https://docs.k0sproject.io/stable/install/)
  as a management cluster.
  For Cluster API integration, you can use a
  [Cluster API cluster](https://cluster-api.sigs.k8s.io/reference/glossary.html#management-cluster).
* `kubectl` installed locally.
* For Cluster API integration:

  * [clusterctl](https://cluster-api.sigs.k8s.io/user/quick-start.html#install-clusterctl)
    installed locally.
  * Configured cloud provider. In this documentation set, we describe
    configuration examples for the following providers: AWS, Docker,
    Hetzner Cloud, OpenStack, vSphere. For setup instructions, refer to the
    official documentation of the selected cloud provider.

* Optional. CSI provider for persistent storage in managed clusters.
* Optional. Load balancer provider for ensuring high availability of the
  control plane.

# Full installation

A full k0smotron installation implies the following components:

* k0smotron operator
* Custom Resource Definitions
* Role-based access control rules
* Bootstrap provider
* Infrastructure provider
* Control plane provider

To install the full version of k0smotron:

```bash
kubectl apply -f https://docs.k0smotron.io/{{{ extra.k0smotron_version }}}/install.yaml
```

Now, you can create your first control planes using k0smotron either as a
standalone manager, or as a Cluster API provider. For use case details, see
[k0smotron usage](usage-overview.md).

# Per-module installation for Cluster API

k0smotron is compatible with `clusterctl` and can act as a Cluster API
bootstrap, infrastructure, and control plane provider. You can use
`clusterctl` to install each k0smotron Cluster API module separately:

```bash
clusterctl init --bootstrap k0sproject-k0smotron \
                --control-plane k0sproject-k0smotron \
                --infrastructure k0sproject-k0smotron
```

To start using the k0smotron Cluster API, refer to [Cluster API](cluster-api.md).

Commit message:

[DOCS] Move the Limitations section to install.md
Reason: user must know limitations before deciding whether to install the product

Signed-off-by: ologvinova <ologvinova@mirantis.com>

docs/install.md, after:

# Introduction

This section describes how to install k0smotron on top of an existing k0s
Kubernetes cluster that allows for creation and management of the k0s
control plane.

## Known limitations

Areas in which k0smotron is currently limited include:

* Control plane exposure

    Currently k0smotron only supports `ClusterIP`, `NodePort`, and
    `LoadBalancer` services, and often it is necessary to further configure
    created services to ease their interaction with cloud provider
    implementations.

* Updates prevalence

    Although k0smotron can easily update the cluster control plane, in
    standalone mode such updates do not extend to worker nodes.

# Hardware requirements

k0smotron does not require any special hardware for workloads aside from
the one required for k0s. For details on k0s hardware requirements for
workloads, see [k0s documentation](https://docs.k0sproject.io/stable/system-requirements/).

# Software prerequisites

k0smotron requires the following software to be preinstalled:

* Kubernetes management cluster.
  In this documentation set, we use the
  [k0s Kubernetes distribution](https://docs.k0sproject.io/stable/install/)
  as a management cluster.
  For Cluster API integration, you can use a
  [Cluster API cluster](https://cluster-api.sigs.k8s.io/reference/glossary.html#management-cluster).
* `kubectl` installed locally.
* For Cluster API integration:

  * [clusterctl](https://cluster-api.sigs.k8s.io/user/quick-start.html#install-clusterctl)
    installed locally.
  * Configured cloud provider. In this documentation set, we describe
    configuration examples for the following providers: AWS, Docker,
    Hetzner Cloud, OpenStack, vSphere. For setup instructions, refer to the
    official documentation of the selected cloud provider.

* Optional. CSI provider for persistent storage in managed clusters.
* Optional. Load balancer provider for ensuring high availability of the
  control plane.

# Full installation

A full k0smotron installation implies the following components:

* k0smotron operator
* Custom Resource Definitions
* Role-based access control rules
* Bootstrap provider
* Infrastructure provider
* Control plane provider

To install the full version of k0smotron:

```bash
kubectl apply -f https://docs.k0smotron.io/{{{ extra.k0smotron_version }}}/install.yaml
```

Now, you can create your first control planes using k0smotron either as a
standalone manager, or as a Cluster API provider. For use case details, see
[k0smotron usage](usage-overview.md).

# Per-module installation for Cluster API

k0smotron is compatible with `clusterctl` and can act as a Cluster API
bootstrap, infrastructure, and control plane provider. You can use
`clusterctl` to install each k0smotron Cluster API module separately:

```bash
clusterctl init --bootstrap k0sproject-k0smotron \
                --control-plane k0sproject-k0smotron \
                --infrastructure k0sproject-k0smotron
```

To start using the k0smotron Cluster API, refer to [Cluster API](cluster-api.md).
