docs/status.md, before:

# Project status

We’re really early on with the project and as always with any young project there are probably some sharp corners. But with the help of the open source community we plan to iron out those in the coming months.

At this point we can not give much guarantees over backwards and forwards compatibility so expect things to break a bit with upcoming releases of k0smotron.

We wanted to release k0smotron as early as possible to see whether there is in general interest of running k0s control planes as Kubernetes resources. We are excited about the potential that k0smotron brings to the table, and we look forward to seeing how it can transform the way you manage your Kubernetes deployments.


## Cluster API

One of the directions we're looking at is the have k0smotron working as a Cluster API provider for both `ControlPlane` and worker `Bootstrap` providers. What this means is that you could utilize Cluster API to provision both the control plane, within the management cluster, and worker nodes in your favourite infrastructure supporting cluster API.

## Known limitations

Some of the areas we know have lot of shortcomings currently:
- Control Plane configurability: As you know, k0s itself has lot of configurability, we plan to enable full configurability of the k0s control plane
- Control plane exposing: Currently k0smotron only supports `NodePort` and `LoadBalancer` type services. While that is in itself quite ok quite often there's need to further configure e.g. annotations etc. on the created service to make them play nice with cloud provider implementations.
- Updates: While k0smotron is able to update the cluster controlplane easily the update does not strecth into worker nodes.
-

Commit message:

[DOCS] k0smotron edits for Status and Known Limitations section. (#485)
* k0smotron edits for Status and Known Limitations section.

Signed-off-by: KoryKessel-Mirantis <kkessel@mirantis.com>

* Made edits suggested by Alexey Makhov in review.

Signed-off-by: KoryKessel-Mirantis <kkessel@mirantis.com>

* Small typo fix and removal of link to standalone mode content.

Signed-off-by: KoryKessel-Mirantis <kkessel@mirantis.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: KoryKessel-Mirantis <kkessel@mirantis.com>

docs/status.md, after:

# Project status

To gauge the level of interest in running k0s control planes as Kubernetes
resources, we are releasing k0smotron at the earliest possible moment. Of
course, as with any young project just getting started, there are bound to be
some bumps, unforeseen issues, and a few surprises. In line with that, we can
offer no guarantees regarding backward or forward compatibility, and you should
expect a certain amount of breakage with each ensuing k0smotron release.

All caveats aside, though, we are truly excited about what k0smotron has to
offer, and look forward to seeing how it can transform the way you manage your
Kubernetes deployments. We are confident that the open source community will
take great interest in the project, too, and help us to smooth out the rough
edges in the days, weeks, and months ahead.

## Cluster API

One key focus of the k0smotron project is to have it function as a Cluster
API provider for `ControlPlane`, `Bootstrap` and `Infrastructure` providers.

## Known limitations

Areas in which k0smotron is currently limited include:

* Control plane exposure

    Currently k0smotron only supports `ClusterIP`, `NodePort` and
    `LoadBalancer` services, and often it is necessary to further configure
    created services to ease their interraction with cloud provider
    implementations.

* Updates prevalence

    Although k0smotron can easily update the cluster controlplane, in
    standalone mode such updates do not extend to worker nodes.
